1- What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
   
    When a repo is initialized, Git creates a /.git directory to store the project's metadata and objects database. The repository initially contains four subdirectories:
     /hooks - for output massages;
     /info - exclude list
     /objects - contains the objects database
     /refs - stores the heads and tags.
    three files:
     config - project-specific configuration options
     description - used by Git-web program
     HEAD  - the guy who will walk the walk

    Initializing Git gets it ready to track and process files in the working directory.

2- How is the staging area different from the working directory and the 
   repository? What value do you think it offers?

    The staging area is an intermediate space that holds objects to be committed. The working directory resides the projects and the repository is where the project database is archived.

    Files in the working directory are unpacked, while files in the index and in the repo are checksummed and stored as key-value SHA1.

    Staging a file, Git processes it for committing. Staging offers control over segmenting the project's process for efficiency and organizational purposes, i.e. one logical change per commit per file per Add.

3- How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

     To examine the changes made to the repository, compare the file in the index vs. the current commit via $ git diff --staged command. If all changes fall into one patch, great, may proceed.

4- What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your 
   history organized? How would branches help?

     Some situations may include:
     a- Creating version(s) with specific features. For example,       
        a version of the project in another language.
     b- Experimentation. For example, double checking a beta version.
     c- Pinpoint a certain edition of the project.

     Branching out of the main line of development gives the project a
     space to grow as large and as diverse as it can get, while
     keeping the repository organized. 
     
     With branches, one can create new lines of developments whether for 
     experimentations or for different features, etc.
     
5- How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

     Before working on the WHO, WHEN, WHAT of the log, it is much better to draw a diagram, for a more than one-branch repository, so as to save driving the head crazy. As the diagram should help to track which branch contains which commits.

6-  What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

      When two branches are merged: the commits of both are serialized in the
      log chronologically, thus the logical connection between commits is lost--
      that is a given commit is not necessarily the parent of the previous one. Another result is that all commits are reachable from a single branch, which is the main purpose for merging.

      What happens is that the tip of each branch becomes a parent to the newly created commit. Thus the diagram is drawn branched out.

7-  What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs.
    always doing merges manually?

       When two branches are to be merged, Git is configured to do two operations: 1- assign a common base for the merged files to serve as the original against which Git compares for conflicts; 2- if Git finds any conflict in the files, it renders the operation to the committer, unless otherwise specified via different merge arguments, to solve conflicts manually.

       Therefore, if you know in advance which hunk to be included in the new file, that's fine, go ahead with pre-supplied merge arguments, and the committer will save time and avoids errors prone in manual merging.

       In case that the conflict solving overlap, Git continuing with its 'nothing-is-lost' line, renders control to the committer to solve this conflict manually. Hereby a consensus is reached and the upgrade is correctly achieved.